<h1 align="center">SQLite源码</h1>

https://www.sqlite.org/src/doc/trunk/README.md

## 获取源码

## 编译

推荐的方法是首先新建文件夹来存放build文件。Cd进入bld，然后运行configure命令和make命令。

For example:

        tar xzf sqlite.tar.gz    ;#  Unpack the source tree into "sqlite"
        mkdir bld                ;#  Build will occur in a sibling directory
        cd bld                   ;#  Change to the build directory
        ../sqlite/configure      ;#  Run the configure script
        make                     ;#  Run the makefile.
        make sqlite3.c           ;#  Build the "amalgamation" source file
        make test                ;#  Run some tests (requires Tcl)

See the makefile for additional targets.

## 源码漫游

大部分源代码在/src文件夹下。/src包含"shell.c"文件作为命令行的入口文件。

The **ext/** subdirectory contains code for extensions.  The
Full-text search engine is in **ext/fts3**.  The R-Tree engine is in
**ext/rtree**.  The **ext/misc** subdirectory contains a number of
smaller, single-file extensions, such as a REGEXP operator.

The **tool/** subdirectory contains various scripts and programs used
for building generated source code files or for testing or for generating
accessory programs such as "sqlite3_analyzer(.exe)".

### Generated Source Code Files

Several of the C-language source files used by SQLite are generated from
other sources rather than being typed in manually by a programmer.  This
section will summarize those automatically-generated files.  To create all
of the automatically-generated files, simply run "make target&#95;source".
The "target&#95;source" make target will create a subdirectory "tsrc/" and
fill it with all the source files needed to build SQLite, both
manually-edited files and automatically-generated files.

The SQLite interface is defined by the **sqlite3.h** header file, which is
generated from src/sqlite.h.in, ./manifest.uuid, and ./VERSION.  The
[Tcl script](http://www.tcl.tk) at tool/mksqlite3h.tcl does the conversion.
The manifest.uuid file contains the SHA1 hash of the particular check-in
and is used to generate the SQLITE\_SOURCE\_ID macro.  The VERSION file
contains the current SQLite version number.  The sqlite3.h header is really
just a copy of src/sqlite.h.in with the source-id and version number inserted
at just the right spots. Note that comment text in the sqlite3.h file is
used to generate much of the SQLite API documentation.  The Tcl scripts
used to generate that documentation are in a separate source repository.

The SQL language parser is **parse.c** which is generate from a grammar in
the src/parse.y file.  The conversion of "parse.y" into "parse.c" is done
by the [lemon](./doc/lemon.html) LALR(1) parser generator.  The source code
for lemon is at tool/lemon.c.  Lemon uses a
template for generating its parser.  A generic template is in tool/lempar.c,
but SQLite uses a slightly modified template found in src/lempar.c.

Lemon also generates the **parse.h** header file, at the same time it
generates parse.c. But the parse.h header file is
modified further (to add additional symbols) using the ./addopcodes.awk
AWK script.

The **opcodes.h** header file contains macros that define the numbers
corresponding to opcodes in the "VDBE" virtual machine.  The opcodes.h
file is generated by the scanning the src/vdbe.c source file.  The
AWK script at ./mkopcodeh.awk does this scan and generates opcodes.h.
A second AWK script, ./mkopcodec.awk, then scans opcodes.h to generate
the **opcodes.c** source file, which contains a reverse mapping from
opcode-number to opcode-name that is used for EXPLAIN output.

The **keywordhash.h** header file contains the definition of a hash table
that maps SQL language keywords (ex: "CREATE", "SELECT", "INDEX", etc.) into
the numeric codes used by the parse.c parser.  The keywordhash.h file is
generated by a C-language program at tool mkkeywordhash.c.

### The Amalgamation

All of the individual C source code and header files (both manually-edited
and automatically-generated) can be combined into a single big source file
**sqlite3.c** called "the amalgamation".  The amalgamation is the recommended
way of using SQLite in a larger application.  Combining all individual
source code files into a single big source code file allows the C compiler
to perform more cross-procedure analysis and generate better code.  SQLite
runs about 5% faster when compiled from the amalgamation versus when compiled
from individual source files.

The amalgamation is generated from the tool/mksqlite3c.tcl Tcl script.
First, all of the individual source files must be gathered into the tsrc/
subdirectory (using the equivalent of "make target_source") then the
tool/mksqlite3c.tcl script is run to copy them all together in just the
right order while resolving internal "#include" references.

The amalgamation source file is more than 100K lines long.  Some symbolic
debuggers (most notably MSVC) are unable to deal with files longer than 64K
lines.  To work around this, a separate Tcl script, tool/split-sqlite3c.tcl,
can be run on the amalgamation to break it up into a single small C file
called **sqlite3-all.c** that does #include on about five other files
named **sqlite3-1.c**, **sqlite3-2.c**, ..., **sqlite3-5.c**.  In this way,
all of the source code is contained within a single translation unit so
that the compiler can do extra cross-procedure optimization, but no
individual source file exceeds 32K lines in length.

Unfortunately, years of effort have gone into optimizating SQLite, both
for small size and high performance.  And optimizations tend to result in
complex code.  So there is a lot of complexity in the SQLite implementation.

Key files:

  *  **sqlite.h.in** - This file defines the public interface to the SQLite
     library.  Readers will need to be familiar with this interface before
     trying to understand how the library works internally.

  *  **sqliteInt.h** - this header file defines many of the data objects
     used internally by SQLite.

  *  **parse.y** - This file describes the LALR(1) grammer that SQLite uses
     to parse SQL statements, and the actions that are taken at each step
     in the parsing process.

  *  **vdbe.c** - This file implements the virtual machine that runs
     prepared statements.  There are various helper files whose names
     begin with "vdbe".  The VDBE has access to the vdbeInt.h header file
     which defines internal data objects.  The rest of SQLite interacts
     with the VDBE through an interface defined by vdbe.h.

  *  **where.c** - This file analyzes the WHERE clause and generates
     virtual machine code to run queries efficiently.  This file is
     sometimes called the "query optimizer".  It has its own private
     header file, whereInt.h, that defines data objects used internally.

  *  **btree.c** - This file contains the implementation of the B-Tree
     storage engine used by SQLite.

  *  **pager.c** - This file contains the "pager" implementation, the
     module that implements transactions.

  *  **os_unix.c** and **os_win.c** - These two files implement the interface
     between SQLite and the underlying operating system using the run-time
     pluggable VFS interface.

  *  **shell.c** - This file is not part of the core SQLite library.  This
     is the file that, when linked against sqlite3.a, generates the
     "sqlite3.exe" command-line shell.

  *  **tclsqlite.c** - This file implements the Tcl bindings for SQLite.  It
     is not part of the core SQLite library.  But as most of the tests in this
     repository are written in Tcl, the Tcl language bindings are important.

There are many other source files.  Each has a suscinct header comment that
describes its purpose and role within the larger system.


## Contacts

The main SQLite webpage is [http://www.sqlite.org/](http://www.sqlite.org/)
with geographically distributed backup servers at
[http://www2.sqlite.org/](http://www2.sqlite.org) and
[http://www3.sqlite.org/](http://www3.sqlite.org).
